Teachers should create an anchor chart together with the class on chart paper to reinforce SMART goal concepts for grades 4-5 financial literacy instruction. The anchor chart should be displayed throughout the lesson activities and unit. If students have questions about the concepts, refer them back to the anchor chart and use it as a teaching tool. In each section of the chart, students should write questions they can ask themselves to ensure their goal meets that element, brainstorming and creating these questions themselves, though examples can be provided in each box. The anchor chart can also include drawings, term definitions, and examples of the components of a SMART Goal, with students volunteering definitions and examples based on what they have learned.

In each of the boxes write a question students can ask themself to ensure their goal meets that element. Students should brainstorm and create these questions themselves. However, examples are included in each box. The anchor chart created in class can also include drawings, term definitions, and examples of the components of a SMART Goal. Allow students to volunteer the definitions and examples of each term based on what they have learned and include them in the chart.

•

Page 2 provides a sample anchor chart with instructions to create the finished anchor chart together as a class.

Page 3 provides an anchor chart template if you prefer to have students complete their own anchor charts in small groups or individually. You may also project the template and complete the anchor chart as a class using a SmartBoard or other technology.

# Grades 4-5 Financial Literacy Lesson 2 Anchor Chart: “SMART Goals and Achieving Your Dreams”

# S M A R T

MEASURABLE

How can I track my progress toward this goal?

Is this a goal I can accomplish?

When do I want to achieve this goal by?

What exactly do I want to accomplish?

Is this an important goal that will help my future?

RELEVANT

SPECIFIC

ACHIEVABLE

TIME-BOUND
